SATURDAY, FEBRUARY 22ND, DAY
AFTER BLOODY PROTESTS, TAKIN
CONTROL.
IN OUR SIGNATURE SECTION
STRUGGLING WITH UNEMPLOYMENT
BENEFITS
>> IT REALLY HIT HARD REALIZING,
OH, MY GOD, I DIDN'T GET A
CHECK.
>> OUR COMPASSION HAS NEVER BEEN
UNLIMITED IN THIS SENSE.
WE ALWAYS EVENTUALLY CUT PEOPL
OFF.
>> AND THE HIGHWAY TRUST FUND IS
ABOUT TO RUN OUT OF MONEY.
THE IMPLICATIONS FOR YOU
NEXT, ON "PBS NEWSHOUR WEEKEND."
>> GOOD EVENING, THANKS FO
JOINING US
DRAMATIC CHANGE UNDER WA
TONIGHT IN UKRAINE, THE FORMER
SOVIET REPUBLIC OF MORE MAN 45
MILLION PEOPLE SEPARATING NORT
FROM WEST.
TYMOSHENKO SET FREE, HOURS
EARLIER, VICTOR YANUKOVYCH FLE
THE COUNTRY AND HE WAS VOTED OUT
OF OFFICE CALLING IT A COUP.
WE HAVE THE LATEST FROM JAME
BLAKE OF BRITAIN'S CHANNEL 4
NEWS
[ CHANTING ]
>> Reporter: THEY CHANT HE
NAME, THE OPPOSITION LEADER IN
PRISON FOR MORE THAN TWO YEARS
YULIA TYMOSHENKO HAS AT LAST
BEEN FREED
THESE IMAGES SHOWED EMOTION OF
HER RELEASE AFTER A DAY OF RAPID
AND MOMENTOUS CHANGE
IT IS A DEFINING AND ICONI
IMAGE OF REVOLUTION, YET THIS IS
NOT 1989, BUT 25 YEARS ON IN
WESTERN UKRAINE AS PEOPLE HERE
DECLARED FREEDOM FROM RUSSIA
INFLUENCE.
THEY'VE ALWAYS BEEN CLOSER T
EUROPE IN THIS PART OF THE
COUNTRY.
BUT IT'S NOT THAT EASY
PROTESTERS AND OPPOSITION GROUPS
TOOK CONTROL OF GOVERNMENT
BUILDINGS IN THE CAPITAL TODAY
THE POLITICAL MANEUVERINGS
BEGAN.
INSIDE PARLIAMENT AS THEY VOTE
TO REYULIA TYMOSHENKO, SHE BROKE
DOWN IN TEARS.
>> Translator: I'M VERY THANKFUL
TO THE PEOPLE FIGHTING FOR
FREEDOM IN UKRAINE AND ME AN
MY FAMILY PAID WITH THE BLOOD OF
OUR HEROES
>> Reporter: AFTER DAYS OF THI
BLOODSHED, THE LEADERS OF TH
RESPONSIBLE UKRAINE SECURITY
FORCES AND ELITE RIGHT POLIC
APPEARED ON TELEVISION TO PLEDGE
THEIR SUPPORT TO THE PEOPLE.
THE UKRAINE IS NOW A COUNTRY
DIVIDED BY REGION.
THE CENTER OF PROTEST AN
NATIONALISM IN THE WEST, WHERE
THE STATUES WERE TOPPLED, AN
ANOTHER DECLARING ITSELF
INDEPENDENT, OPPOSITION GROUPS
NOW IN CONTROL OF KIEV, YE
YANUKOVYCH HAS STRONG POWER IN
THE EAST
>> IT'S DIFFICULT TO MATCH
DIDN'T BECOMING A CENTER O
STABILITY, FOR TYMOSHENK
BECAUSE SHE'S DIVISIVE AND MAN
PEOPLE DON'T LIKE PRESIDEN
YANUKOVYCH
I THINK THE BEST OPTION FO
UKRAINE WOULD BE TO HAVE SOM
NEW BLOOD.
>> Reporter: IN THE RUSSIA
SPEAKING REGION, A RALLY I
SUPPORT OF YANUKOVYCH, COMPLET
WITH RUSSIAN RIPPONS AND SOVIE
EMBLEMS.
MANAGING TO GET ON THE STAGE
BUT NOT FOR LONG
BACK IN KIEV, IT'S ANNOUNCED THE
PRESIDENT IS TO BE IMPEACHED A
YESTERDAY'S DEAL SEEMS ALL BUT
FORGOTTEN.
THIS CELEBRATION MAY B
PREMATURE, NOW THEY MUST WAIT TO
SEE HOW PRESIDENT YANUKOVYCH
SUPPORTERS AND RUSSIA RESPOND OR
EVEN RETALIATE TO THE EVENTS O
TODAY.
>> MORE ABOUT HOW DEVELOPMENTS
IN UKRAINE ARE AFFECTING
AMERICAN-RUSSIAN RELATIONSHIPS
AFTER THE NEWS SUMMARY
>>> AT THE UNITED NATIONS, CHINA
AND RUSSIA JOINED OTHERS
UNANIMOUSLY APPROVING BOOSTING
HUMANITARIAN AID INCLUDING FOO
AND MEDICINE TO CIVILIANS.
BAN KI-MOON IS TO REPORT BACK ON
PROGRESS AND NEAR LIR 9 MILLIO
SYRIANS NEED ASSISTANCE.
>>> ONE OF THE WORLD'S MOS
POWERFUL DRUG LORDS HAS BEEN
DETAINED BY AUTHORITIE
OVERNIGHT.
CAPTURED IN A MEXICAN RESORT
TOWN
GUZMAN ESCAPED PRISON IN A
LAUNDRY TRUCK 13 YEARS AGO AND
CAME TO BE KNOWN AT MEXICO THE
OSAMA BIN LADEN BECAUSE HE WAS
SO DIFFICULT TO TRACK DOWN
>>> LAST WEEKEND WE TOLD YOU HOW
VOTERS IN TENNESSEE VOTED DOWN A
PLAN TO JOIN THE UNITED AUTO
WORKERS' UNION
THEY'VE NOW FILED AN APPEA
CITING WHAT IT CALLS
INTERFERENCE BY POLITICIANS THAT
IT SAYS DEPRIVED THE WORKERS O
THEIR FEDERALLY PROTECTED RIGH
TO HAVE A UNION.
SENATOR BOB CORKER, WH
CRITICIZED THE UNIONIZATION PLAN
ISSUED A STATEMENT SAYING TH
UAW IS QUOTING ONLY INTERESTED
IN ITS OWN SURVIVAL.
NOT THE INTERESTS OF THE AUT
WORKERS.
>>> APPLE SAYS SEVERAL OF IT
PRODUCTS ARE VULNERABLE TO
HACKERS'S IN A STATEMENT ISSUE
FRIDAY THE COMPANY CITED RISKS
TO CONSUMERS USING MAC
COMPUTERS, THE iPHONE 4 OR LATER
MODELS, THE iPOD TOUCH AND iPA
2, 3 AND AIR
THE COMPANY SAYS THE SECURIT
RISK STEMS FROM A PROBLEM WITH
ENCRYPTED DATA SENT TO A
WIRELESS INTERNET CONNECTION
ALLOWING TO USER NAMES AND
PASSWORDS.
AN UPDATE CAN BE DOWNLOADED FO
SOME OF THE AFFECTED PRODUCTS.
MAC COMPUTER USERS ARE STILL A
RISK
>>> THE DEVELOPMENTS IN THE LAST
FEW WEEKS IN UKRAINE HAV
FURTHER STRAINED THE ALL RIGHT
FRAUGHT RELATIONSHIP BETWEEN THE
UNITED STATES AND RUSSIA
FOR MORE ON THAT AND OTHER
ISSUES DIVIDING THE COUNTRIES,
STEVE CONE THE PROFESSOR O
STUDIES AT THE UNIVERSITY OF
PRINCETON AND AUTHOR OF "SOVIE
FATES AND LOST ALTERNATIVE NICHE
FROM STALIN TO THE NEW COL
WAR.
UKRAINE, RIGHT NEXT DOOR T
RUSSIA
RUSSIA HAS MAJOR INTERESTS
HOW IS PUTIN LIKELY TO REACT
>> LOOK AT WHAT MIGHT HAPPEN
TAKE THE MOST EXTREME SCENARIO
THE PRESIDENT, DEMOCRATICALL
ELECTED, THOUGH NOT A NICE MAN
HAS FLED KIEV, THE CAPITAL O
UKRAINE, TO THE EAST, NEAR
RUSSIA
PRESUMABLY HE'S GOING TO DECLARE
THAT HE'S THE LEGITIMATE
PRESIDENT OF UKRAINE AND FORM
GOVERNMENT THERE
MEANWHILE, PROTESTERS, A MOB
WHATEVER WANT TO CALL THEM, HAVE
TAKEN OVER THE PRESIDENTIA
PALACE AND THE LEGISLATURE I
KIEV AND THEY ARE GOING TO FOR
A GOVERNMENT
SO WE ARE PROBABLY GOING T
HAVE, IF NOT IN LAW, IN FACT
TWO GOVERNMENTS OF UKRAINE
THAT'S VERY DRAMATIC IN TH
CENTER OF EUROPE
ONE WILL BE AFFILIATED WIT
RUSSIA, IF THIS HAPPENS.
THE OTHER WITH THE EUROPEA
UNION AND IF WE THINK TAB IN THE
WORST SCENARIO THAT WOULD BE A
NEW COLD WAR DIVIDE IN EUROPE.
THIS TIME NOT IN FAR AWAY BERLIN
BUT RIGHT ON RUSSIA'S BORDER
AND THAT ISN'T GOOD.
>> IS THERE A POSSIBILITY TH
RUSSIAN ANNEX BACK THAT SECTIO
OF UKRAINE THAT LIKES IT
>> TODAY IT'S EIGHT HOURS LATER,
NINE HOURS LATER THERE
THE LEGISLATURE OF WHAT CALL
ITSELF THE SOUTHEASTER
PARLIAMENT OF UKRAINE.
THE AREA WHERE IT'S MAINLY
RUSSIAN SPEAKING AND ADHERES T
RUSSIA PASSED RESOLUTIONS SAYING
THEY DON'T RECOGNIZE THE
AUTHORITY IN KIEV MEANIN
THEY'RE SAYING THEY'RE SOVEREIGN
AND INDEPENDENT.
IN EFFECT, IN LINE WITH RUSSIA
RUSSIA'S RED LINE, IF WANT T
ASK ME ABOUT WHETHER RUSSI
WOULD INTERVENE MILITARILY, IT
RED LINE ARE THE TWO RUSSIAN
ENCLAVES IN EASTERN UKRAINE.
NOT ONLY BECAUSE THOSE ARE
ETHNIC RUSSIANS BUT THAT'S WHERE
THE RUSSIAN NAVAL BASES ARE.
>> OKAY.
SO PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED
STATES AND PRESIDENT PUTIN HAV
A CONFERENCE CALL YESTERDAY.
WHAT ARE THE U.S. INTERESTS IN
ALL THIS
>> WELL, YOU ASK ME TWO CONFESS.
WHAT DOES WASHINGTON THINK ITS
INTERESTS ARE?
BECAUSE THEY'VE SPUN A NAI
THEY'VE ISN'T CORRECT AN
WORSENED THE PROBLEM AND WHAT
THINK WASHINGTON'S INTERESTS
OUGHT TO BE AND THEY OUGHT TO BE
A STABLE AND UNITED UKRAINE, A
PEACE WITH ITSELF, AND NOT
TRAPPED IN AN EITHER/O
PROPOSITION BETWEEN RUSSIA AND
EUROPE
THERE'S NO REASON WHY UKRAIN
MUST CHOOSE.
UKRAINE'S AN ECONOMIC BASKET
CASE
AS PUTIN HEMS SAID, LET BOTH
SIDES, RUSSIA AND EUROPE HEL
UKRAINE.
BUT THINGS MAY BE OUT OF
CONTROL.
THIS MAY BE SOMETHING OF A
REVOLUTIONARY SITUATION.
NOTHING WRITTEN ON PAPER HOLDS
TO THAT EVENING.
>> FINALLY, TURNING TO SOMETHING
ELSE, SORT OF IN THE NEWS ABOU
RUSSIA
CONSIDERING THE OLYMPICS ARE
ENDING NOW, AND THERE AR
CONCERNS PUTIN WILL CRACK DOWN
HARDER ON HIS DISSIDENTS
BECAUSE THE MEDIA SPOTLIGHT WILL
BE AWAY.
WE SAW THE BAND, PUSSY RIO
STAGE A PROTEST IN SOCHI, BEATEN
HORRIBLY AND WRITING IN OP-EDS
IN THE "NEW YORK TIMES" SAYING
LOOK, NEXT WEEK IT'S GOING T
GET WORSE.
>> LOOK.
PUTIN ISN'T GOING TO CRACK DOW
INSIDE RUSSIA BECAUSE TH
OLYMPICS ARE OVER.
ONE OF THE BAD THINGS THAT'S
HAPPENED IN UKRAINE IS A
DEMOCRATICALLY ELECTED
GOVERNMENT HAS BEEN OVERTHROWN
AND FORCES SPONSORED BY THE WE
ARE COMING TO POWER.
PUTIN WANTS TO KNOW, IS THAT A
PARADIGM FOR RUSSIA?
IS THE WEST GOING TO TRY THE
SAME THING IN RUSSIA
NOW, YOU AND I MIGHT SAY THATS
PARANOID
EVEN PARANOIDS HAVE ENEMIES, H
MIGHT CRACK DOWN BECAUSE H
FEARS THE KIEV SCENARIO MIGHT BE
ATTEMPTED IN RUSSIA.
I DON'T THINK WE'D DO THAT BUT
RUSSIANS HAVE SEEN SOMETHING
FAIRLY UNNERVING
>> STEVE CONE, THANKS SO MUCH.
>> MY PLEASURE
>>> AND NOW TO OUR SIGNATURE
SEGMENT.
OUR FOCUS TONIGHT, THE END O
FEDERAL EMERGENCY BENEFITS FOR
THE LONG-TERM UNEMPLOYED
FOR WEEKS YOU'VE HEARD THE
DEBATE IN WASHINGTON WHETHER T
RESTORE THE BENEFITS PROGRAM
WHICH ENDED IN LATE DECEMBER
AS THAT DEBATE KEEPS GOING, TH
NUMBER OF UNEMPLOYED DOING
WITHOUT BENEFITS CONTINUES T
RISE
FROM AN ESTIMATED 1.3 MILLION IN
LATE DECEMBER TO 1.6 MILLION B
THE END OF JANUARY, TO 1.8
MILLION PEOPLE NOW
TONIGHT, A PROFILE OF ONE WOMA
WHO LOST HER SGLOB LATE 2012
AND LOST HER BENEFITS AT THE END
OF LAST YEAR
"NEWSHOUR" SPECIAL CORRESPONDENT
JOHN CARLOS FREY REPORTS FRO
GEORGIA.
>> I OPEN IT UP, AND -- JUST RIP
IT DOWN THE MIDDLE
>> Reporter: TRISTA CUTS A LOT
OF COUPONS THESE DAYS.
IN FACT, SHE'S BECOME A BIT OF A
FANATIC ABOUT IT
>> THIS IS MY COUPON BOX
CONTAINER.
I CARRY IT WITH ME TO TH
GROCERY STORE.
COFFEE, CAKE, BUTTER, MILK
PASTA.
SUGAR.
THIS ONE HERE IS FOR HOUSEHOLD
GOODS AND PERSONAL ITEMS
YOU NEVER KNOW THAT COUPONS WILL
SAVE YOU AS MUCH MONEY AS IT
ACTUAL LAY
>> Reporter: THE 38-YEAR-OLD WHO
LIVES IN A SUBURB JUST OUTSIDE
OF ATLANTA, GEORGIA, HAS BEE
SAVING ALL THESE COUPONS
BECAUSE AS OF DECEMBER 28th, SHE
HAS NO INCOME.
SHE WAS ONE OF 1.3 MILLION
AMERICANS WHO LOST THEIR
UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE WHEN AN
EMERGENCY FEDERAL UNEMPLOYMENT
INSURANCE PROGRAM EXPIRED.
>> THAT SAME WEEK THAT I
EXPECTED TO GET THAT NEXT CHEC
WAS THE SAME WEEK THAT I HAD A
BILL THAT WAS DUE, BUT I WASN'
ABLE TO PAY IT
I HAD TO ASK MY HUSBAND TO START
PAYING MY PART OF THE BILLS,
AND -- THAT'S THE SAD PART
NOT BEING ABLE TO HELP M
HUSBAND.
PAY -- PAY THE BILLS
>> Reporter: TRISTA, WHO USED TO
MAKE $30,000 A YEAR WORKING FO
A MEDICAL BILLING SERVICE WA
LAID OFF FROM HER JOB IN
NOVEMBER OF 2012, AND HASN'T
BEEN ABLE TO FIND A JOB SINCE.
>> A YEAR OUT THERE IN THIS JO
MARKET HAS KIND OF BEAT YOU UP A
LITTLE BIT
YEAH
>> IT'S VERY SAD THAT, TO HAVE
THE QUALIFICATIONS, AND NOT BE
ABLE TO ACTUALLY WORK.
YOU KNOW, GET A JOB, IN YOUR
FIELD.
AND I'VE BEEN DOING IT SINCE
>> Reporter: WHY DO YOU THIN
IT'S SO HARD FOR YOU TO GET
JOB?
>> I'M NOT SURE.
A LOT OF COMPANIES ARE STILL
LAYING OFF
>> Reporter: TRISTA HAS BEEN
WITHOUT HER BENEFITS FOR EIGHT
WEEKS.
TO MAKE MATTERS WORSE, HER
HUSBAND, WHO'S A TRUCK DRIVER,
WAS HURT ON THE JOB, AND IS NO
ON WHAT'S KNOWN AS LIGHT DUTY,
WORKING FEWER HOURS AND ONLY
TAKING HOME ABOUT 60% OF WHAT HE
USED TO, WHICH NOW EQUALS ABOU
$2,000 A MONTH
>> SO -- THAT'S ANOTHER WHAMMY
YOU KNOW
SOMETHING ELSE THAT --
STARTED -- STARTED THE
DOWN-SPIRAL.
EXCUSE ME.
>> Reporter: THEY SAY THEY NOW
HAVE TO DIP INTO THEIR SAVINGS
JUST TO PAY THEIR BILLS.
SHE SAYS THINGS HAVE GOTTEN SO
BAD, THAT WHEN SHE'S NOT AT HE
COMPUTER FOR SEVERAL HOURS EAC
DAY LOOKING FOR WORK, SHE AN
HER HUSBAND SPEND THEIR FREE
TIME WATCHING TV, JUST TO LIFT
THEIR SPIRITS.
>> CARTOONS AND COMEDY, IT HAS
US LAUGHING.
IT TAKES YOUR MIND OFF OF TH
THINGS THAT YOU MIGHT BE GOING
THROUGH.
>> Reporter: THERE'S SOME PEOPLE
WHO WOULD SAY PEOPLE O
UNEMPLOYMENT DON'T WANT TO LOO
FOR A JOB.
THEY JUST WANT TO LIVE OFF THE
UNEMPLOYMENT AND IT'S A FREE
EASY PAYCHECK.
>> IT'S NOT A FREE, EASY
PAYCHECK
THAT'S -- FOR ME, IT'S NOT
I KNOW WHAT I LIKE IN LIFE
I KNOW WHAT I STRIVE TO HAVE I
THE FUTURE, AND I CAN SAY SOME
PEOPLE MIGHT TRY TO USE THAT
BUT ME PERSONALLY, THAT'S NO
ME
>> Reporter: WHILE TRIST
BELIEVES EXTENDING HER BENEFIT
WOULD GIVE HER THE CUSHION SHE
NEEDS TO GET ANOTHER JOB
ECONOMICS PROFESSOR JEFF DORFMAN
WHO TEACHES AT THE UNIVERSITY OF
GEORGIA SAYS THE EXTENDED UR
EMPLOYMENT BENEFITS ARE TH
PROBLEM.
>> THE STUDIES SHOW IT RAISE
UNEMPLOYMENT MORE BY ALLOWIN
PEOPLE TO STAY UNEMPLOYED LONGER
STILL SEARCHING FOR A REALLY
GREAT JOB INSTEAD OF TAKING
JOB THAT'S AVAILABLE
>> Reporter: DORFMAN POINTS TO
NORTH CAROLINA
LAST JULY THE STATE CU
UNEMPLOYMENT BENEFITS FROM
76 WEEKS
IT DROPPED FROM 8.9 PERCENTS FOR
6 POIRN 9%
>> YOU ATLABT TO CUTTING 5
WEEKS OF UNEMPLOYMENT?
>> WHEN YOU SUDDENLY GET CUT OFF
YOU REALIZE, I NEED TO CUT A
JOB.
AND PEOPLE IN NORTH CAROLINA
APPARENTLY FOUND JOBS.
>> Reporter: OTHERS ATTRIBUT
THE DECLINE TO UNEMPLOYE
WORKERS GIVING UP THEIR SEARCH
FOR WORK AND THEY NOTE THE DRO
IN UNEMPLOYMENT HAS BEEN COUPLED
WITH A BIG INCREASE IN THE
NUMBER OF PEOPLE THERE ON FOOD
STAMPS
>> I GET JOB ONLINE ALERTS
>> Reporter: AS FOR TRISTA, SH
SAYS SHE'D BE HAPPY TO TAKE
JOB OUTSIDE HER MEDICAL BILLIN
FIELD.
SHE SAYS SHE'S APPLIED FOR ALL
KINDS OF JOBS DURING THE PAS
YEAR
EVERYTHING FROM DRIVING A SCHOOL
BUS OR TRUCK TO CLERICAL JOBS AT
CVS AND WALMART.
EVEN AS A FLIGHT ATTENDANT WIT
DELTA.
ALL MET WITH REJECTION
>> WE REGRET TO INFORM YOU YOU
HAVE NOT BEEN CONSIDERED FOR
THIS POSITION AT THIS TIME
THANK YOU FOR YOUR TIME AND BEST
WISHES IN YOUR FUTURE ENDEAVOR
DELTA ACQUISITION TEAM
I'VE GOTTEN THAT THREE TIMES
FROM DELTA
>> AS YOU KNOW, YOU HEAR THE
THEORY SOME PEOPLE ARE JUST
COUPLE PAYCHECKS AWAY FROM
HOMELESSNESS, WELL, WE ACTUALL
SEE THAT
>> Reporter: TRACY MOSLEY IS A
TRANSITION PROGRAM COORDINATOR
FOR THE URBAN LEAGUE OF GREATE
ATLANTA, AN ORGANIZATION THA
HELPS AFRICAN-AMERICANS FIND AND
TRAIN FOR JOBS
HE WARNS OF DIRE CONSEQUENCE
UNLESS UNEMPLOYMENT BENEFITS ARE
EXTENDED
>> WE ACTUALLY SEE PEOPLE THAT
HAVE HAD A SUSTAINABLE INCOM
THAT HAD A GOOD JOB, GOO
EMPLOYMENT, THAT ALL OF A SUDDEN
THEY FIND THEMSELVES HOMELESS.
>> Reporter: THE PROBLEM I
PARTICULARLY ACUTE IN TH
AFRICAN-AMERICAN COMMUNITY
WHERE THE UNEMPLOYMENT RATE IS
NEARLY DOUBLE THE NATIONAL
AVERAGE.
MOSLEY SAYS THE INTERVIEW AN
JOB PREP CLASSES HIS
ORGANIZATION OFFERS HAVE BEE
FILLED TO CAPACITY WITH PEOPLE
LIKE TRISTA WHO HE SAYS AR
DESPERATE FOR WORK
SHE RECENTLY MET WITH A JO
COUNSELOR HERE
>> SO YOU'RE BEING RECOMMENDED
FOR POSITION WITH MARTA, THE
TRANSIT AUTHORITY FOR ATLANTA.
THAT'S OUR BUS, RAILWAY SYSTEM
THAT WE USE HERE
OKAY
SO THAT'S ONE OF THE
OPPORTUNITIES YOU'LL B
CONSIDERED FOR
SO I WANT TO MAKE SURE ARE
GOING TO BE AVAILABLE ON MARCH
3rd.
I HAVE YOU LINED UP FOR AN
INTERVIEW.
>> OKAY.
WELL, THANK YOU SO MUCH.
I REALLY APPRECIATE THIS
THIS IS A BIG HELP
>> Reporter: TRISTA IS CROSSIN
HER FINGERS THAT THIS LEAD MIGHT
JUST PAN OUT, BUT FOR THE TIME
BEING, JUST GETTING TO THE URBAN
LEAGUE'S OFFICE IN ATLANTA,
45-MINUTE DRIVE FROM HER HOME IN
THE SUBURBS, IS A FINANCIA
BURDEN NOW THAT SHE DOESN'T HAVE
AN UNEMPLOYMENT CHECK EVER
WEEK
>> AND SO IF THEIR SOURCE OF
INCOME OF TEMPORARY INCOME, IS
CUT OFF, A LOT OF THEM CANNO
EVEN AFFORD TO COME DOWN HER
FOR THE TRAINING
>> Reporter: BUT PROFESSOR JEF
DORFMAN SAYS GOVERNMENT BENEFITS
CAN'T GO ON FOREVER.
>> OUR COMPASSION HAS NEVER BEEN
UNLIMITED IN THIS SENSE.
WE ALWAYS EVENTUALLY CUT PEOPL
OFF.
WE ALREADY HAD SOME MECHANIS
FOR DECIDING AT SOME POINT WE'VE
GOT TO STOP PAYING FOR YOU
>> AND SOME ARGUE WE'RE NO
THERE YET, THERE IN THE RECOVERY
WHERE WE SHOULD CUT BACK
WE STILL NEED TO FUND FOR AN
EXTENDED PERIOD OF TIME?
>> THE LONGEST WE'VE EVER KEPT
BENEFITS BEFORE IS 35 MONTHS
AFTER THE END OF A RECESSION
AND WE'RE 55 MONTHS NOW.
SO WE'RE 20 MONTHS, OVER A YEA
AND A HALF LONGER THAN WE'VE
EVER PROVIDED THESE EXTENDED
BENEFITS FOR
>> Reporter: DORFMAN BELIEVES IF
THE GOVERNMENT IS GOING TO
INTERVENE THAT MONEY COULD B
BETTER USED RETRAINING FOR NEW
JOBS
FOR NOW, WITH CONGRESS AT AN
IMPASSE, IT LOOKS LIKE TRIST
AND NEARLY 2 MILLION OTHERS WILL
HAVE TO SURVIVE WITHOUT TH
FEDERAL LIFELINE THEY'VE COME TO
COUNT ON IN THESE HARD TIMES
>> I MEAN, IT DAMPENS YOUR
SPIRIT A LITTLE BIT, BUT THE
ONLY WAY YOU CAN PROSPER, I'VE
LEARNED IS TO KEEP A HIG
SPIRIT, AND SO I JUST LOOK AT IT
AS, WHERE ONE DOOR CLOSES,
SOMEONE WILL EVENTUALLY HIRE ME.
>> Reporter: AFTER A YEAR, YOU
STILL FEEL THAT WAY?
>> I STILL FEEL THAT WAY, YES.
>>> HUNDREDS OF PEOPLE
UNEMPLOYED AND LIVING WITHOU
BENEFITS SHARED THEIR STORIE
WITH US.
YOU CAN FIND THOSE BY GOIN
ONLINE TO "NEWSHOUR."PBS.ORG
>>> THE TRANSPORTATION SECRETARY
OF THE UNITED STATES WARNED THIS
WEEK THAT FEDERAL HIGHWAY TRUS
FUND COULD RUN OUT OF MONE
LATER THIS YEAR.
WITH THE IMPLICATIONS OF THA
BE
JOINED FROM WASHINGTON BY BO
KUZAK, MANAGER EDITOR FROM THE
HILL
THOSE NOT PAYING ATTENTION WHA
IS THE TRUST FUND AND HOW DID WE
GET THIS CLOSE IT RUNNING OUT OF
MONEY AGAIN Y. BECAUSE FEWER
PEOPLE ARE DRIVING AND BASICALLY
IT'S FUNDED BY THE GAS TAX, AN
THAT GAS TAX GOES INTO THIS FUND
AND THIS FUND FROM THE FEDERAL
GOVERNMENT GOES TO STATES TO PAY
FOR INFRASTRUCTURE SPENDING.
THERE'S GOING TO BE A SHORTFAL
AND THAT'S CAUSING A LOT O
CONCERN ON CAPITOL HILL,
ESPECIALLY WITH TH
TRANSPORTATION SECRETARY
HE'S URGING CONGRESS TO STAR
THINKING ABOUT REMEDIES OF HOW
THEY'RE GOING TO DEAL WITH THI
SHORTFALL, BUT WITH PARTISAN
GRIDLOCK IN WASHINGTON, THIS I
GOING TO BE A TOUGH ONE TO
SOLVE.
>> SO INTERESTINGLY ENOUGH, TH
AFL-CIO AND CHAMBER OF COMMERC
BOTH WENT TOLT HILL AND SAID
WE'RE FOR AN INCREASE IN THE GAS
TAX.
INCREDIBLY UNPOPULAR WIT
CONGRESS
>> ABSOLUTELY.
THAT'S WHY THE GAS TAX HASN'
BEEN INCREASED FOR TWO DECADES
AND IT'S NOT GOING TO BE
INCREASED ANYTIME SOON
IT'S A NON-STARTER IN TH
REPUBLICAN-LED HOUSE, AND EVEN
THOUGH THE CHAMBER OF COMMERCE
WANTS CONGRESS TO DO THIS AN
THE ADMINISTRATION HASN'T GONE
THAT FAR, BUT THE TRANSPORTATION
SECRETARY COMMENDED THE CHAMBE
FOR HAVING THE GUTS TO DO THAT
SO IT'S GOTTEN THE DIALOGU
GOING.
GOTTEN THE DEBATE GOING, BUT
THAT'S NOT GOING TO BE THE
REMEDY, BECAUSE THAT SIMPL
DOESN'T HAVE THE VOTES AND
SPEAKER JOHN BOEHNER IS NO
GOING TO INCREASE THE GAS TA
ANYTIME SOON
ESPECIALLY WITH HIS TEA PART
CONFERENCE
>> ALL RIGHT
SO WHAT ARE OTHER POSSIBLE
REMEDIES THAT COULD CLOSE THIS
GAP?
>> THERE AREN'T MANY
YOU KNOW, TRANSPORTATION
SPENDING, THE POLITICS OF IT
HAVE CHANGED DRAMATICALLY SINC
THE STIMULUS WHICH WAS A VER
PARTISAN DEBATE BEFORE THA
TRANSPORTATION FUNDING WAS MOR
OF A BIPARTISAN FEELING,
INITIATIVE, BUT NOW, I DON'T
KNOW WHAT THEY'RE GOING TO D
OTHER THAN JUST MAYBE MOVING
MONEY FROM THE GENERAL FUND TO
THE TRANSPORTATION FUND, WHICH
CONGRESS HAS DONE BEFORE, BU
STILL, THEY'RE GOING TO BE A LOT
OF CONSERVATIVES ON CAPITOL HILL
WHO WILL OPPOSE THAT BUT NOT A
LOT OF EASY REMEDIES
OTHERWISE, THEY WOULD HAVE
ALREADY DONE IT.
>> WHAT SORT OF ROAD REPAIRS ARE
AFFECTED WHEN THIS FUND IS SHORT
OF MONEY
>> OH -- MANY, ACROSS TH
STATES, AND BASICALLY WHAT THI
IS GOING TO -- WHAT'S GOING TO
HAVE TO BE SDUN THAT, THAT
STATES ARE GOING TO HAVE TO CU
FUNDING FOR INFRASTRUCTURE
PROJECTS
STATES ACROSS COUNTRY ARE GOIN
TO HAVE A SHORTFALL.
THEY'RE NOT GOING TO GET THE
MONEY THEY NORMALLY GET FROM THE
FEDERAL GOVERNMENT, IN ALL
LIKELIHOOD, UNLESS CONGRES
COMES UP WITH SOME BIG
BIPARTISAN AGREEMENT, AND THAT'S
UNLIKELY
SO THE AMOUNT OF MONEY THA
STATES ARE SPENDING ON
INFRASTRUCTURE A GOING TO GO
DOWN, AND THAT'S A SIGNIFICANT
CONCERN ESPECIALLY IN THE WAKE
OF THE STORMS WE'VE HAD, WHICH
HAVE THROWED A NUMBER OF
POTHOLESES ACROSS THE COUNTRY.
THAT'S ONLY A SMALL PERCENTAGE
OF TRANSPORTATION FUNDING TO FIX
THOSE, BUT NO DOUBT ABOUT IT
STATES WILL HAVE TO CUT TH
AMOUNT OF SPENDING THEY USE ON
TRANSPORTATION
>> ALL RIGHT
BOB KUZAK, MANAGING EDITOR O
THE HILL
THANKS SO MUCH
>> THANK YOU
>>> THIS IS "PBS NEWSHOU
WEEKEND" SATURDAY.
>>> FINALLY TONIGHT, A PREVIEW
OF NEXT TUESDAY'S FRONTLINE.
SECRETS OF THE VATICAN AIRING AT
A SPECIAL TIME, 9:00 P.M. ON
MOST PBS STATIONS.
THIS EXCERPT LOOKS AT POPE
BENEDICT'S BUTLER FOR LEAKIN
SENSITIVE DOCUMENTS.
>> POPE BENEDICT XVI OPENED ON
SATURDAY
>> VATICAN TELEVISION PUT A CRAM
IN THE COURTROOM AND A SELEC
GROUP OF JOURNALISTS WER
INVITED INSIDE
FOR THOSE WHO WITNESSED TH
PROCEEDINGS, IT HAD ALL TH
ELEMENTS OF A SHOW TRIAL
>> IT WAS SO SCRIPTED AND SO
NARROWLY FOCUSED ON THE FACT
THAT THE BUTLER HAD TO HAVE BEEN
THE ONLY ONE THAT SHOWED THE
DOCUMENTS THAT LEAKED THEM T
THE JOURNALISTS, THAT TOOK THE
OUT OF THE SAFE -- THE SAFETY OF
THE VATICAN.
HIS DEFENSE LAWYER WAS VERY MUCH
ALIGNED WIT PROSECUTOR
EVERYTHING WAS REALLY KEPT O
MESSAGE.
>> I WAS AT THE MAN'S TRIAL.
THERE WERE DOCUMENTS THAT WERE
LEAKED
HE SUPPOSEDLY LEAKED NAP WER
WRITTEN IN LANGUAGES THAT HE
DOES NOT SPEAK
HOW WOULD HE EVEN KNOW THAT THEY
WERE IMPORTANT
>> NOBODY THAT I'VE SPOKEN TO,
THAT I CONTINUE TO SPEAK TO IN
THE VATICAN, REALLY BELIEVE THAT
THE BUTLER DID IT.
HE'S A SCAPEGOAT
>> THE HIGHEST AUTHORITIES I
THE VATICAN DIDN'T WANT TO SHO
TO THE PUBLIC OPINION TH
NETWORK, HOW MANY SUPPORTERS
THERE WERE AROUND THE BUTLER I
THIS PLANNED ACTION.
>> THE TRIAL LASTED FOR JUST
FIVE DAYS.
HE WAS FOUND GUILTY AN
SENTENCED TO 18 MONTHS
>> JUST BEFORE CHRISTMAS O
2012, BENEDICT PARDONED HIM.
I ASSUME THAT THERE WAS A DEAL
DONE THAT HE WILL REMAIN QUIET
AND WE WILL GIVE AWE JOB
GIVE YOU A JOB
>>> JOIN US TOMORROW ON-AIR AN
ONLINE
INDIGENOUS PEOPLE LIVING O
REMOTE RIVERS AROUND THE WORLD
ARE COMMUNICATING WITH EAC
OTHER ABOUT CLEANING UP TH
WATERWAYS AND EXERCISING THEIR
RIGHTS
>> THOSE TENS OF THOUSANDS O
VOICES, THEY HAVE BEEN IGNORED
OVER THE YEARS
THEY'VE BEEN DISENFRANCHISED BUT
AS THEY COME TOGETHER THERE'
BEEN SOME REALIZATIONS ALONG THE
WAY.
>> THAT'S IT FOR THIS EDITION OF
"PBS NEWSHOUR WEEKEND.
THANKS FOR WATCHING.
-- Captions by VITAC -
www.vitac.co